# 06

## Node.js

### What Is Node.js?
Node.js® is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome’s V8 JavaScript engine.
Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.

This means that Node.js is a program we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers. In other words, it’s a JavaScript runtime.

### Introducing npm, the JavaScript Package Manager

#### Installing a Package Globally
```
npm install -g jshint
```

#### Installing a Package Locally
```
npm init -y

npm install lodash --save
```

### What Is Node.js Used For?
Node.js Lets Us Run JavaScript on the Server

### The Node.js Execution Model
Node.js, however, is single-threaded. It’s also event-driven, which means that everything that happens in Node is in reaction to an event.

### Are There Any Downsides?
The fact that Node runs in a single thread does impose some limitations. For example, blocking I/O calls should be avoided, CPU-intensive operations should be handed off to a worker thread, and errors should always be handled correctly for fear of crashing the entire process.

### What Kind of Apps Is Node.js Suited To?
Node is particularly suited to building applications that require some form of real-time interaction or collaboration

### What Are the Advantages of Node.js?
- You can do everything in the same language, which, as a developer, makes you more productive (and hopefully, happier). For example, you can easily share code between the server and the client.
- Another of Node’s big pluses is that it speaks JSON
- Finally, JavaScript is ubiquitous: most of us are familiar with JavaScript, or have used it at some poin

### Other Uses of Node
And it doesn’t stop at the server. There are many other exciting and varied uses of Node.js!

## Pair Programming

