# 10 In memory storage

## Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack

The JavaScript engine (which is found in a hosting environment like the browser), is a single-threaded interpreter comprising of a heap and a single call stack. The browser provides web APIs like the DOM, AJAX, and Timers.

The call stack is primarily used for function invocation (call).

The key takeaways from the call stack are:
1. It is single-threaded. Meaning it can only do one thing at a time.
2. Code execution is synchronous.
3. A function invocation creates a stack frame that occupies a temporary memory.
4. It works as a LIFO — Last In, First Out data structure.

Let us take a look at a code sample to demonstrate LIFO by printing a stack trace error to the console.
```
function firstFunction(){
  throw new Error('Stack Trace Error');
}

function secondFunction(){
  firstFunction();
}

function thirdFunction(){
  secondFunction();
}

thirdFunction();
```
## JavaScript error messages

### Types of error messages

- Reference errors
- Syntax errors
- Range errors
- Type errors

### Debugging
- To debug your JS code, the easiest and maybe the most common way its to simply console.log() the variables you want to check or, by using chrome developer tools

### Call stack

### Handling errors
- try catch

### Tools to avoid runtime errors
- quokka to evaluate your code as you type
- eslint to make sure your style guide is consistency and it will grab you an error or two along the way and
- For those of you looking to make JS a more strong typed experience you can check out stuff like TypeScript