# 14

## When Women Stopped Coding

### tldr; capitalism and marketing teams made it so the general population was manipulated into thinking this field was only for men despite what was actually happening. (this happens to many industries in america where money rules and has a loud voice over factual evidence *sad face*)

A lot of computing pioneers — the people who programmed the first digital computers — were women. And for decades, the number of women studying computer science was growing faster than the number of men. But in 1984, something changed. The percentage of women in computer science flattened, and then plunged, even as the share of women in other technical and professional fields kept rising.

What happened?

We spent the past few weeks trying to answer this question, and there's no clear, single answer.

But here's a good starting place: The share of women in computer science started falling at roughly the same moment when personal computers started showing up in U.S. homes in significant numbers.

Who Studies What? Men, Women And College Majors
PLANET MONEY
Who Studies What? Men, Women, And College Majors
These early personal computers weren't much more than toys. You could play pong or simple shooting games, maybe do some word processing. And these toys were marketed almost entirely to men and boys.

## https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/

ugh, this just makes me want to make a design agency with friends even more

## Why diversity matters to your tech company

I'm not even going to read tghis article but I'm going to say this.

Diversity matters because you can't manufacture lived experience. You can study about someone's lived experience your whole life, you can master in it, you can have a phd in it, but until you live it, you won't know the feeling of it.  

And that's just the fact of life.

So, diversity matters because it's something capitalism can't manufacture. and when you try and manufacture inclusion, it kind of implodes or catches up to the company.  It's complicated and unique to each experience so of course, I can't and won't and don't have an interest in speaking for everyone.

I know for people like me, trust your body because it know what safety feels like.  Words are easy to say. but actions is where the truth lies.  Stay safe and trust yourself.